Hi, Mystery Recapped here.
Today, I'm going to explain the mystery thriller
film called “Julia’s eyes.”
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care!
The movie starts when we see a blind woman...named
Sara talking to an invisible presence.
The presence has been tormenting her for days.
It plays songs and follows her around the
house.
Sara cannot take more of this...so she goes
to the basement to hang herself.
Just then, she feels the presence near her.
She changes her mind...but before she can
remove the noose, someone kicks the tool away.
A person from a corner...clicks a picture
of her hanging to death.
A set of hospital tools lies on a table nearby.
Sara’s twin sister Julia lives miles away
from her.
As Sara hangs to death, Julia collapses.
She senses something wrong, and decides to
visit Sara.
Julia and her husband, Issac, come looking
for Sara and find her dead in the basement.
Sara and Julia both had the same kind of disease
that made their vision progressively worse...eventually
making them blind, but Sara’s vision had
gotten bad before Julia’s.
At home, the police officer suggests...declaring
it a case of suicide…he suspects Sara got
depressed with her blindness, so she committed
suicide.
However, Julia insists.. it is not, as Sara
was waiting for a donor to get her vision back
She believes this is not a case of suicide,
but that of murder.
He then informs her of a blind lady named
Soledad...who Sara used to talk to.
Julia visits Soledad, and gets to know about
a place named Baumann Centre; a place for
handicapped people.
She tells her that Sara had made new friends
there.
Julia visits the place.
When she goes there, she hears a group of
blind women gossiping about Sara.
Sara had a boyfriend who she went with…
to a hotel in Bellavista.
The women notice Julia’s presence and confront
her.
When she introduces herself, they ask who
the man she came with is.
Julia is surprised because she had come alone.
But the women sense someone standing right
behind her.
Julia sees someone walk out.
She chases the person, and reaches a small
dark room.
The person is right in front of her, but she
cannot see him due to the darkness.
He flashes his camera which distracts Julia,
and he escapes.
Her eyesight goes weak.
Issac wants her to go back home...because
any more stress will cause Julia to lose her
vision ,but she convinces him to go to Bellavista
for a holiday.
In reality, she wants to find out Sara’s
boyfriend whom the blind women had been talking about
As they arrive in Bellasvista, she chooses
the hotel in which Sara stayed with her boyfriend.
In the hotel, she cannot find any record of
Sara's boyfriend.
Later at lunch, a waitress tells her that
her twin, Sara, already had her eye operation.
So she is confused as why Sara committed suicide
if she already had the operation.
Then, Issac reveals...that Sara’s doctor
told him that her eye operation was not successful.
According to him, this is the reason Sara
committed suicide.
As Julia is about to leave the hotel, a janitor
named Créspulo says that he found something
in Sara’s hotel room.
He guides her to Sara’s room, and gives
her a key that belonged to Sara.
Créspulo also tells her to be careful of
the man in the dark.
Just then, Julia senses someone behind her.
The person runs away before she can catch
him.
Julia and Issac then go to get surveillance
camera footage to identify the person Sara
was with.
Issac goes in to get the footage, but never
comes back.
When Julia goes in to check, Issac is not
there; all the footages are gone too.
She reports to the police about Issac’s
disappearance ,and tells them about the invisible man.
Just then, we see Créspulo bathing in a tub.
Someone cuts off the light bulb over him.
It electrocutes him to death.
The police and Julia come looking for Créspulo,
and find him dead.
Julia is now sure that the invisible man has
killed Créspulo and kidnapped her husband.
Worried about Issac, she gets a seizure that
further weakens her eyesight.
She goes to see her doctor... who tells her
that she has less than a month before she
goes fully blind.
He arranges an eye transplant surgery for
her.
Later that day, she goes back to Soledad’s
house.
Soledad had a husband and a son named Ángel.
Her husband left her, and Ángel had looked
after her for ten years before suddenly leaving one day
Shortly, the police find Issac’s last location
to be a motel.
They also find his wedding ring in the room
he stayed in.
As the Inspector and Julia are in the
motel talking, another officer comes saying
that someone is at Julia’s home.
The two of them return back.
Inspector goes to check into a room...when
Julia hears a noise from the basement.
She goes down to check…but because of her
eyesight and the room’s darkness, she doesn’t
see anything.
She feels around the room and suddenly touches
a man.
Scared, she starts to yell for help.
The inspector comes down, and tries to calm
her; suddenly, the lights come back.
Issac’s body hangs from the ceiling.
He has committed suicide.
But even when the lights are on, Julia can’t
see.
She has gone fully blind.
The following day at the hospital, the inspector
tells Julia about Issac’s suicide letter.
He had an affair with Sara for six months
before her death.
He killed himself because he couldn’t lie
to Julia anymore.
A few days later, Julia goes through eye surgery.
She has to live with the bandage around her
eyes for a week.
Only after that, will we know if the surgery
has been successful.
During this time, she will stay under supervision
in her twin’s house.
The hospital provides Julia with a caretaker
named Ivan...to help her around the house.
He gives her a device to hang around her neck...so
that she can call him anytime she wants.
That night, Julia gets a nightmare about Issac
and Sara trying to get her bandage off.
She wakes up terrified.
Then she hears footsteps from outside.
She calls Ivan through the device.
He tells her to get out of the house.
She escapes.
Just then, someone takes the key Créspulo
had given her.
The police come in the following day...but
they do not find any evidence of invasion.
Ivan lovingly changes Julia’s bandage.
For the next few days, he takes great care
of her.
Changing her bandages, cooking for her, listening
to music with her, and whatnot.
But throughout all those times, we never get
to see Ivan’s face.
On the third day, Julia asks him to stay for
drinks.
They have a conversation about Issac...after
which she kisses him.
That night, Julia is woken up by a nightmare.
As she reaches for her wedding ring on the
side table, we see a set of hospital tools
similar to one from the night of Sara’s
death...
Someone from behind her tries to injects her with
a drug.
This wakes her up, and she finally touches
the man.
Terrified, she runs out of the house to her
neighbor, Blasco’s home.
His daughter Lia is home too.
He lets her inside but starts to harass Julia.
Shortly, she is surprised to find Sara’s
key in his house; she takes it with her.
She escapes from his house, and hides in a
corner calling Ivan for help.
Finally, Ivan comes to save her.
She is too scared to go into her own house,
so he takes her to his.
There she tells him that she found Sarah's
key at Mr. Blasco’s home.
She suspects that Blasco is the invisible
man.
Ivan leaves for some time when Lia approaches
Julia.
She has followed them here and snuck into
the house through the windows.
Lia tells Julia that she was the one who stole
the key from her house and that she knows
who killed Sara and Issac.
It is the invisible man - IVAN himself
Lia reveals that she used to be close to
Sara; and knows a lot about the invisible man
Julia doesn’t believe it but Lia insists
that the key unlocks one of the locks in Ivan’s house
Ivan has been drugging Julia to make her go
blind...as he did with Sara.
Lia tells Julia to go to the bathroom, and
stay there until Lia finds a way to escape.
When Ivan comes back, she asks him to take
her to the bathroom.
She then opens her bandage…4 days before
the schedule.
Luckily, the operation is successful, and
she is happy to have gained her vision back.
She quickly goes outside, and enters one of
the rooms.
She is shocked to see many pictures of Sara
and herself on the wall.
Julia leaves the room to look for Lia, but
sees her body stabbed to the wall.
Ivan had killed her too.
Terrified, she sits down in the corner crying.
Just then, Ivan comes into the room.
We see his face for the first time.
It is splattered with Lia’s blood.
Julia poses as though the surgery was unsuccessful,
and pretends that she is still blind.
Ivan expresses his love for her.
Now she is in the kitchen with him.
She sees him drugging her cup of tea.
Julia then replaces her cup of tea with his.
Ivan doesn’t notice but he gets suspicious.
He takes her to the freezer, and asks her
to open it.
Inside it... is the dead body of real Ivan.
Julia gasps, giving away that she can actually
see.
The imposter Ivan calls her a liar.
He then takes her to Sara’s house, but Julia
manages to run away from him into Soledad’s house
There she asks her to call the police, but
Ivan comes in before she can.
He calls Soledad “mom”...revealing that
he is actually her son, Ángel.
Julia pleads with Soledad to call the police,
but Ángel convinces her that he is not a killer
Then Soledad hits Julia on her head with the
phone.
Ángel realizes that his mother can see.
Soledad reminds him he will be nothing without
her.
This agitates Ángel, so he chokes her.
He wants her to go back to being blind again.
He pokes her eyes with a needle.
When Julia wakes up, she is in the basement
of Sara’s house.
Ángel sits in front of her.
He has packed all her clothes and plans to
take her away to live with him.
As he starts to kiss her, Julia takes a knife
and stabs him on his legs.
She quickly runs out of the basement and locks
him there.
But she can’t get out of the house.
She calls the police.
Just as Ángel breaks the door, Julia cuts
off all the lights in the house.
It is pitch dark.
Angel uses his camera flash to look for Julia,
and finds her.
As he tries to stab her, the police come in.
But they too cannot see anyone in the dark
room.
Julia takes one of the torch lights from them,
and shines it to Ángel in the corner.
The shadow finally comes to light.
Ángel cannot handle being looked at by so
many people, so he slits his throat, killing himself
Cut to a few weeks later, Julia is at the
hospital, she finds that the damage to her
new eyes is irreversible...as she had been
continuously injected by her "fake" caretaker.
Using her last few hours of vision, Julia
says goodbye to Isaac's corpse.
It is revealed that he was the one who donated
her with his eyes.
The movie ends as the camera zooms into Julia’s
eye...
Now, for the explanation.
Sara and Julia both have a condition called
degenerative vision.
This causes them to lose their vision progressively....eventually,
going blind.
Sara loses her vision before Julia.
Ángel has a fascination for blind girls.
He calls himself an invisible man.
This is a metaphor for him trying to say that
he has no friends or family.
No one notices him when he’s around because
he’s not worth noticing.
Over time, Ángel has developed the ability
to be stealthy, and stalk victims efficiently.
He took care of his mother Soledad for ten
years thinking she was blind.
Soledad was the only person who he talked
to.
This filled Ángel with resentment towards
everyone who did not notice or care for him.
However, he fell in love with Sara, and then
Julia.
According to him, only blind girls could feel
his presence.
Sara tells her other blind friends at a Centre
For The Blind that she’s been dating someone.
This person is Ángel.
Once she has her eyes operated, she goes with
Ángel to a Hotel in Bellavista for a week.
At this point she has her eyes bandaged.
We are not told what circumstances she meets
with Ángel.
Perhaps he was posing as her caretaker, and
his empathy was winning Sara over.
Ángel doesn’t want Sara getting her eyesight
back.
He ensures that he sneaks up on Sara in the
nights and injects her eyes with chemicals
that destroy the optic nerve.
The doctor declares that the operation has
failed.
Sara gets to know that someone is following
her; she could feel his presence and resented him
So, he killed her.
When Julia came looking for Sara, Ángel saw
it as another opportunity at love.
But Julia had her husband always by her side.
Hence, Ángel killed him as well.
However, the neighbor girl, Lia, helped Julia
find out about Ángel’s real intentions
before he could blind Julia fully.
At the end, finally, Julia makes him visible
to everyone.
He had always been a lonely man.
So, when the police officers had their eyes
on him, he could not handle it, killing himself
at the end.
That’s my explanation for the movie “Julia’s
eyes.”
Subscribe for more videos like this, turn
on notifications, and leave a like to help
the channel out.
Thank you for watching.